README.md, before:

# CineBank

Open source local video management solution for Windows.
Manage all your movies and series inside a central tool, store metadata and launch them in your preferred media player.

The execution is realized through customizable PowerShell-scripts to grant you full control about how the files are going to be opened.
Mounting your ISOs or playing any type of media file with any software can be achieved easily.
To avoid unauthorized users messing with your scripts, integrity checks can be enabled.

For information about the design of the application, check the [Developer Manual](DEV.md).

## Installation

1. Download latest release from [GitHub](https://github.com/0Raptor/CineBank/releases)
2. Extract software on your machine
3. Adapt powershell scripts in "Scripts"-Subfolder
4. Run initial configuration
5. (optional) Create a desktop shortcut
6. Start applicaton

## Initial configuration

Next to the main executable there must be a file called `config.xml`. This is the primary configuration file.  
The file will be created automatically if you run the `UpdateConfiguration.ps1`-script during installation!

> After changing the configuration run `UpdateConfiguration.ps1`-script to update the checksum in the registry! Otherwise the changed config will be rejected as malicious.
> If you don not want to validate the scripts and config you can disable them through the script and configuration

```XML
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<xml>
 <config>
  <validateChecksums>true</validateChecksums><!-- if true prgram will validate that config has not been changed using checksum in HKLM:\SOFTWARE\CineBank\ConfigCksm -->
  <baseDir></baseDir><!-- OPTIONAL: Specify a baseDir and store relative paths in the databse. This parameter overrides the baseDir specified in the database -->
  <dbPath></dbPath> <!-- OPTIONAL: Path to SQLite-database to load at startup. If not specified must be supplied via commandline parameter -->
  <tmdbApiKey></tmdbApiKey> <!-- OPTIONAL: API-Key for https://www.themoviedb.org/ -->
 </config>
 <checksums>
  <!-- contains checksums of powershell skripts used by the program to play files - program will check their integrity during start -->
  <!-- as the checksum of the config itself will be validated these checksums could not have been modified without administrative rights on your system -->
  <Video1></Video1> <!-- each node contains one checksum - auto generated! -->
  <Video2></Video2>
  <DVDPlayer></DVDPlayer>
  <BRPlayer></BRPlayer>
  <AudioPlayer></AudioPlayer>
  <Setup></Setup>
 </checksums>
</xml>
```

## Roadmap

Ideas that might be implemented in the future:

1. Implement filtering for genre, languages, etc. during search
2. Implement additional DBMS through turning Database-class into a virtual class and creating derived classes for each DBMS.
3. Store information about people (Cast, Director, Score) in own table.

## License

This application is published undes GNU GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3 as refered in the LICENSE-File.

Copyright (C) 2023 0Raptor

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program. If not, see [www.gnu.org/licenses/](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/).

Commit message:

fix: empty languages and genres, fix: coverpath outside basedir, ui: wrap genres, ux: enabled multiline inputs in large textboxes, implemented database backup

README.md, after:

# CineBank

Open source local video management solution for Windows.
Manage all your movies and series inside a central tool, store metadata and launch them in your preferred media player.

The execution is realized through customizable PowerShell-scripts to grant you full control about how the files are going to be opened.
Mounting your ISOs or playing any type of media file with any software can be achieved easily.
To avoid unauthorized users messing with your scripts, integrity checks can be enabled.

This tool will give you full control about what happens to your information. All information about your movies is stored locally 
on your device (except if you decide to store the database anywhere else). No information will be sent to external services.  
To obtain additional information for your entries, you can optionally use the API from [TMDB](https://www.themoviedb.org/). But this feature is 
disabled until you supply an API-Key. And even then, the application will never fetch information automatically, but while adding or editing an entry you can
search for information using a searchbar and a manual button click.

For information about the design of the application, check the [Developer Manual](DEV.md).

## Installation

1. Download latest release from [GitHub](https://github.com/0Raptor/CineBank/releases)
2. Extract software on your machine
3. Adapt powershell scripts in "Scripts"-Subfolder
4. Run initial configuration
5. (optional) Create a desktop shortcut
6. Start applicaton

## Initial configuration

Next to the main executable there must be a file called `config.xml`. This is the primary configuration file.  
The file will be created automatically if you run the `UpdateConfiguration.ps1`-script during installation!

> After changing the configuration run `UpdateConfiguration.ps1`-script to update the checksum in the registry! Otherwise the changed config will be rejected as malicious.
> If you don not want to validate the scripts and config you can disable them through the script and configuration

```XML
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<xml>
 <config>
  <validateChecksums>true</validateChecksums><!-- if true prgram will validate that config has not been changed using checksum in HKLM:\SOFTWARE\CineBank\ConfigCksm -->
  <baseDir></baseDir><!-- OPTIONAL: Specify a baseDir and store relative paths in the databse. This parameter overrides the baseDir specified in the database -->
  <dbPath></dbPath> <!-- OPTIONAL: Path to SQLite-database to load at startup. If not specified must be supplied via commandline parameter -->
  <tmdbApiKey></tmdbApiKey> <!-- OPTIONAL: API-Key for https://www.themoviedb.org/ -->
 </config>
 <checksums>
  <!-- contains checksums of powershell skripts used by the program to play files - program will check their integrity during start -->
  <!-- as the checksum of the config itself will be validated these checksums could not have been modified without administrative rights on your system -->
  <Video1></Video1> <!-- each node contains one checksum - auto generated! -->
  <Video2></Video2>
  <DVDPlayer></DVDPlayer>
  <BRPlayer></BRPlayer>
  <AudioPlayer></AudioPlayer>
  <Setup></Setup>
 </checksums>
</xml>
```

## Roadmap

Ideas that might be implemented in the future:

1. Implement filtering for genre, languages, etc. during search
2. Implement additional DBMS through turning Database-class into a virtual class and creating derived classes for each DBMS.
3. Store information about people (Cast, Director, Score) in own table.
4. Darkmode

## License

This application is published undes GNU GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3 as refered in the LICENSE-File.

Copyright (C) 2023 0Raptor

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program. If not, see [www.gnu.org/licenses/](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/).
